README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/jpbruyere/vkvg/blob/master/vkvg.svg">
	<img src="https://github.com/jpbruyere/vkvg/blob/master/vkvg.svg?sanitize=true" alt="vkvg" width="140">
  </a>
  <br>
	<br>
  Vulkan Vector Graphics
  <br>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.paypal.me/GrandTetraSoftware">
	<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg">
  </a>
</p>
</h1>

### What is vkvg?

**vkvg** is a multiplatform **c** library for drawing 2D vector graphics with [Vulkan](https://www.khronos.org/vulkan/).

[Cairo](https://www.cairographics.org/) was missing a Vulkan backend, so I decided to start one myself trying to keep my api as close to Cairo as possible. Maybe vkvg could serve as a starting point for Cairo maintainers to start their Vulkan backend.

### Current status:

vkvg is in early development stage, and no guarantee is given on the possible roadmap:

- Basic shape fill and stroke functional, using ears clipping.
- Basic painting operation.
- Font system with caching operational.
- Context should be thread safe, tests required.
- Image loading with [stb lib](https://github.com/nothings/stb)
- Nice logo.

### Requirements:

- [Vulkan](https://www.khronos.org/vulkan/)
- [FontConfig](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/fontconfig/)
- [Freetype](https://www.freetype.org/)
- PkgConfig (currently used only to find harbfbuzz)
- [Harfbuzz](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/HarfBuzz/)
- GLSLC: spirv compiler, included in [LunarG SDK](https://www.lunarg.com/vulkan-sdk/) (building only)
- [xxd](https://linux.die.net/man/1/xxd): generate headers with precompiled shaders (building only)
- [GLFW](http://www.glfw.org/) (only for running demo app)
- CMake

### Roadmap

- Improve triangulation algorithm.
- Offscreen pattern building.
- Matrix transformations.
- SVG rendering.

Commit message:

allow building and installing without glslc, xxd or glfw

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
  <br>
  <a href="https://github.com/jpbruyere/vkvg/blob/master/vkvg.svg">
	<img src="https://github.com/jpbruyere/vkvg/blob/master/vkvg.svg?sanitize=true" alt="vkvg" width="140">
  </a>
  <br>
	<br>
  Vulkan Vector Graphics
  <br>
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.paypal.me/GrandTetraSoftware">
	<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg">
  </a>
</p>
</h1>

### What is vkvg?

**vkvg** is a multiplatform **c** library for drawing 2D vector graphics with [Vulkan](https://www.khronos.org/vulkan/).

[Cairo](https://www.cairographics.org/) was missing a Vulkan backend, so I decided to start one myself trying to keep my api as close to Cairo as possible. Maybe vkvg could serve as a starting point for Cairo maintainers to start their Vulkan backend.

### Current status:

vkvg is in early development stage, and no guarantee is given on the possible roadmap:

- Basic shape fill and stroke functional, using ears clipping.
- Basic painting operation.
- Font system with caching operational.
- Context should be thread safe, tests required.
- Image loading with [stb lib](https://github.com/nothings/stb)
- Nice logo.

### Requirements:

- [Vulkan](https://www.khronos.org/vulkan/)
- [FontConfig](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/fontconfig/)
- [Freetype](https://www.freetype.org/)
- PkgConfig (currently used only to find harbfbuzz)
- [Harfbuzz](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/HarfBuzz/)
- GLSLC: spirv compiler, included in [LunarG SDK](https://www.lunarg.com/vulkan-sdk/) (building only)
- [xxd](https://linux.die.net/man/1/xxd): generate headers with precompiled shaders (building only)
- [GLFW](http://www.glfw.org/) (only for running demo app)
- CMake

if glslc or xxd are not present, a precompiled version of the shaders is stored in the git tree.

### Roadmap

- Improve triangulation algorithm.
- Offscreen pattern building.
- Matrix transformations.
- SVG rendering.
